these are the heart of your system
comet Lake is finally here as you've
probably seen by the time that this
video is up plenty of other videos
should also be online actually at the
time while I'm shooting this video it's
the beginning of April and I got the CPU
not directly from Intel but from
different sources there for my
information about this platform is also
kind of limited it was also a bit
confusing to me that I saw when I opened
cpu-z it's listing socket 1159 LGA while
the socket cap itself is reading LGA
1200 therefore I was a little bit
confused but it should be 1200 right but
yeah by the time this video should be up
I think we all should have information
about this platform for today's video we
will straight focus about Allen to
performance we will try how high we can
push the CPU on liquid nitrogen
I ordered 30 liters so we can play
around with the CPU see if it has cold
back if we can overclock it maybe to 7
gigahertz something in this direction
that's what I would expect if we compare
it for example with the previous 9900
came everything is set up already on the
table it's currently running on air just
a 5 gigahertz base profile I'm also
running 3600 3800 on memory which is
also just a base profile to keep the
memory safe memory is not on 100%
performance it's just so we can test the
CPU the first thing we have to do is
prepare the mainboard
so installation stuff let's go for
today's video we're going to use an ASUS
Maximus 12 apex 12th generation already
from the maximum serious quite cool that
they kept it for so long
also I don't really know how the port
design will eventually look like because
you can see it's just a naked board no
heat sinks at all not even for the PCH
or for the BRM which is not going to be
necessary on ellentube
even a PC HS absolutely fine power
consumption of doses maybe like for what
we also just spotted something quite
interesting on this apex port there is a
PCB part hanging off the board right
here it's fixed really a little bit of
tape but only yeah only very small
amount of PCB is still keeping it in
place
it's directly behind the SATA connectors
and it says remove for emergency use
only it looks like a bottle opener but
I'm really not sure what this is maybe
we should try it
I really hope this was the correct
intention of this thing or if I was
completely wrong
anyway the PCB seems to be not strong
enough to open the bottle it broke apart
a little bit and if this was used
correctly I would give it the award of
the weirdest mainboard feature I've ever
seen in my entire life
starting with me Banco liquid rubber
basically a liquid insulation tape we
will spread it all around the socket and
also on the backside of the board just
to prevent any kind of short circuits
which could cure by the condensation
[Music]
all right maybe I'll just write
overnight I gave it a little bit more
time because I really applied a lot of
liquid rubber and it was not sure if
everything is completely dry that's why
we just waited completely overnight and
then it should be fine now we're going
to perform some basic pre testing on
water which would be helpful for the
lm-2 testing because sometimes
especially when you're running Ellen
tude and you suddenly get some
instabilities and you never really know
where they come from it could be just
that there's some condensation somewhere
it could be that the memory doesn't like
that it's getting cold or whatever and
to be sure that you have one basic
setting that's 100% stable you should do
some basic pre testing and that's what
we're going to do on water because in
water I can just use the same mounting
mechanism as what I'm using for the
Ellen food container so just quickly
using this water block with a 360
radiator I expect the same kind of
clocks what we've seen previously on a
ninety nine hundred K or ninety nine
hundred KS shouldn't be a big difference
but we will see how this thing performs
also we're mounting the VGA in the very
first slot there is a PCI Express x four
slot on top which kind of also collides
with an endo to stock that's sitting on
top before I was doing the Alan to stuff
or before I was just setting up the Rick
I had an M door to drive in the M de to
slot on top which is cool because the
apex board now finally also has an M
door to slot not only on the DIMM door
too but also on the board itself but if
we want to populate the PCI Express
x-force what we had to remove it that's
what I did and now just performing the
basic testing
[Music]
unfortunately the CPU is not as nice or
not as good as I expected it's still
good considering that it has 10 cores it
can run at 5.2 gigahertz at one point
three-balled foo and all benchmarks can
also pass Cinebench r15 at that voltage
and 5.3 gigahertz however I cannot pass
Cinebench r20 simply because it's
getting way too warm and I think that's
just because it has 10 cores and it's a
very high frequency therefore the power
consumption will drastically increase
but considering that we have a 360
radiator on here we have a DD C that's
running and 100% basically a custom
water cooling loop and you just cannot
remove the heat as fast as necessary the
CPU will instantly reach about 90 to 95
degrees Celsius at 5.30 Hertz 1.32
Wald's something in that direction as an
image our 20 and then get unstable due
to high temperature and I think that's
just because we cannot get rid of the
heat and it's not because the cooling is
not good enough because the radiator is
really not getting that warm it's just
yeah very high power density on a small
chip therefore yeah you need very very
high cooling and I think that's what
we're going to do time to mount the a
little container I also wanted to give
you the base performance of what we just
talked about CPU is running 5.2
gigahertz across all course right now
also 5 gigahertz on the cache 3,800 C 16
as I said before and cinemas are 15
performance 2822 in multi 230 in single
our 20 is six thousand seven hundred
sixty one points in multi 540 in single
and maximum temperature in our twenty
multi was 93 degree Celsius which is
really the limit
[Music]
you
first step is to cool down to about
minus 80 degrees Celsius then we have to
enter the BIOS apply some settings like
PLL termination voltage VCC i/o voltage
and then we can basically flip two
switches
lnto mode and reserve switch one then we
should be able to boot at around minus
170 or go even full pot we will see how
it works out but first step is cool down
from 2063 celsius to about minus 80
lnto mode is enabled it's something you
really should only use when you're using
LM tool or dry eyes just negative
temperatures and then we also have the
reserved switch 1 & 2 using both of them
at about minus 100 degree Celsius to be
able to put at low temperatures one last
trick we're going to use for LM 2
cooling if you're hitting about - 60 -
70 degree Celsius you can always use
your heat gun or a torch - torch the
container from the inside and then you
have some ice crystals building up
basically the same what you have on the
outside because of the humidity you have
in the air you will have some ice
crystals also inside the container and
the ice crystals will break the gas
layer which is caused by the Leidenfrost
effect means that you have your allen -
you have your warm container your copper
mass and in between you have a gas layer
and the gas layer is insulating both
components and will decrease your
thermal transfer and if you use the heat
gun and have some ice crystals inside it
will speed it up significantly
we're currently at about minus 95 degree
Celsius and you can see just by the
amount of few more I'm not sure all
you're gonna call that in English maybe
leave it down in the comments that's
building up from the evaporating lnto
the amount is so much higher because
it's so much faster evaporation and the
cooling is also much higher we're
getting in the region where we should be
able to boot right now the debug code
still shows zero zero and we have to
keep decreasing the temperature and hit
the retry button which is essentially
really applying your bias settings every
single time until we're low enough in
temperature so we're booting and then we
can see the debug code working
essentially because those reserved
switches are increasing some voltages in
the background which makes it a lot
easier for us extreme overclockers to
boot it's not much effort to do it but
the temperatures is still at minus 100
degrees Celsius to warm to boot we have
to keep decreasing the temperature
unfortunately she has to stay outside
today because I know it is very curious
and would like to see this even up close
but I think this could be too dangerous
for the little cat you know what it's
just so absolutely amazing how easy
extreme overclocking has become over the
last I would say five to six years if
you compare it with like 10 to 15 years
ago it's a completely different story
nowadays I mean the only thing I really
did was cooling down applying 1.45 vzz
IO 1.75 PLL termination voltage flip the
switches cool down full pots I'm already
running 6 gigahertz one point seven
volts obviously the CPU will be able to
clock higher but it's just it's a piece
of cake really I can show it so all I
did was opening tobu B core set CPU core
voltage 1.75 right now for start I said
before PLL terminations 1.75 already
increased the all core turbo frequency
to a 6.2 can increase to 6.3 should also
be no problem now we can rerun our 15
yeah 3268
score in r15 we're going to attempt to
break the seven gigahertz barrier with
the ten core with the 9900 k we actually
did serve seven point six gigahertz but
it was also running with liquid helium
which is a little bit of an unfair
comparison considering that liquid
helium is like 50 times more expensive
and about 60 to 70 degrees Celsius
colder you would only run like 30
degrees colder on the container itself
maybe 40 degrees not that much more but
it's still a significant benefit I'm
currently running six point eight at one
point eight four volt and we're just
trying how high we can push it step by
step
[Music]
the maximum we could get for this
validation purpose was about seven point
two five gigahertz that's the highest I
could see we quickly touched about seven
point three gigahertz unfortunately it
was not stable enough to get a shot of
it or also to make a validation file I
also want to highlight that I'm running
everything on okay I had a quick shut
down everything is fixed self a self I'm
I also want to highlight that everything
I'm doing right here is running 10 cores
20 threats those CPUs technically
allowed to run hyper-threading per core
which means that you can also do 10
cores 14 threats for example depending
what kind of application you want to run
which is something you can also do for
validation purpose a lot of people are
for example running only two cores for
validation and then claim that they're
running the highest validation ever on a
ten 900k which in my opinion really
doesn't make much sense because I mean
why would you run only two cores on high
frequency on a ten core and then claim
you're running very high frequency
doesn't make much sense next thing we
want to try is Cinebench r15 therefore
we will use a little bit lower voltage
for validation it was about 1.9 volts
now about 1.75 1.8 5 volt so far looking
pretty good the previous world record
was with a 10 900 X which is soccer 2066
cascade Lake X running at the bolts just
above selector 60 girls as far as I can
remember and the score was 34 10 roughly
we're now running 3468 so we already
beat the previous world record on 10
core Cinebench r15 running 6.5 on the
core and 6.2 gigahertz on the cache it's
one more thing I want to show you
quickly and that's like the boiling
behavior inside a container if I refill
the ln2 right now we can maybe hear the
boil it boiling a little bit in the
background not sure if you can hear it I
hope so but if I'm going to launch the
benchmark right now it's 6.6 gigahertz
1.8 volt which will be a significant
amount of heat which we have to remove
from the from the CPU with a cooler and
the removal of heat is done by the
evaporation of the ln2 and you can hear
it and you can also see it how the lm-2
starts to increase boiling
and you can also see and hear when the
benchmark is over it will decrease in
boiling the highest I could run quickly
after like five six liters Alan to was
just above six point seven gigahertz
closing in on three hundred points in
are fifteen signal almost thirty six
hundred points in are fifteen multi
going to rerun this quickly for you
[Music]
obviously you could tune this further by
increasing cash maybe another 100 or 200
megahertz also tighten the memory this
is very new stuff right here thirty six
hundred thirty eight hundred sixteen so
yeah if you would spend a lot of time on
this you could easily squeeze another
100 points out of this but so far it's
still 200 points above the previous
world record which is kind of satisfying
so much for ten nine hundred K
overclocking to be honest I mean those
CPUs are still fun to overclock they
overclock really really well because you
can go down really low in temperature
they scale rescale really nicely with
cold but in the end the ten nine hundred
K feels still the same like ninety nine
hundred K like eighty seven hundred K
like seventy seven hundred K like sixty
seven hundred K they're all pretty much
the same when it comes to L into
overclocking all scale really really
nicely with cold starting from ninety
nine hundred K because they're soldered
it's a lot easier for overclocking
because you don't have like Tim cracking
and stuff and the main boards also
developed further that's why it's even
easier for us for Allen to overclocking
all the CPUs have been the same Asus and
coda figured out how to improve things
it's really easy it's still a lot of fun
I'm also quite satisfied with the
results considering that I only have
this very small amount of liquid
nitrogen not that much time so 7.2
gigahertz across all cores six point
seven gigahertz easily stable for
cinnamon or 15 that's quite good and we
will end this right now because there's
also a lot of ice building up on the
side and a little bit of condensation on
the areas where I thought it would not
get that cold and I don't want to risk
the board and the CPU because it's only
set up I have currently and I will need
it for additional testing so much for
this videos thanks for joining in I hope
you enjoyed this extreme overclocking
content see you next time bye
[Music]
during this assembly I spotted something
quite cool you can see that there's it
looks like there's a line drawn just on
the area of the capacitors in the middle
and you can see a lot of ice on the left
and nothing on the right that's due to
the fact that we have those power planes
on the Left transferring all the current
and therefore also the heat and cold
from the CPU and on the right we don't
have that much copper therefore no ice
[Music]